## Overview
This repository contains a collection of my programming done in the Machine Learning course offered at Florida Institute of Technology. In this course, I completed two projects of my choice: one using supervised machine learning and one using unsupervised machine learning. Other notebooks in this repository show some of the coursework completed for assignments. For more information on the material covered in this class or assignments completed, please refer to Doctor Ryan White's repository: https://github.com/rtwhite1546/Spring-2024-Intro-to-Machine-Learning/tree/main

## Project 1 
The goal of this project was to explore the use of supervised machine learning to classify labeled galaxy images as either spiral, elliptical, or uncertain. Data from the Galaxy Zoo Survey was used which can be found here: https://zoo4.galaxyzoo.org/ . Several methods were explored and analyzed by creating a confusion matrix and measuring the accuracy of each method. The best classification accuracy was found when using an untuned random forest with an accuracy of 67%. However, the 'uncertain' classification proved to be difficult and was often misclassified and caused the other two classes to be misclassified as uncertain too. In addition, the imbalance between spiral and elliptical galaxies likely posed challenges when training the model.

## Project 2
The goal of this project was to explore the use of unsupervised machine learning for clustering Spotify API data and giving users new song recommendations. I looked at several audio features for my liked songs and clustered these songs based on features that had the best silhouette score for clustering. After testing several clustering algorithms, I got API data on Spotify's top 100 songs and computed a similarity score to rank new song recommendations. The top 10 recommendations for a select cluster of the data are output at the end along with the similarity score calculated (closer to 1 means they are more similar). I found that agglomerative clustering coupled with a principal component analysis (PCA) performed the best overall, providing the best song recommendations. NOTE: The client ID (CID) and client secret are removed for privacy. You can go online at Spotify's API and follow the instructions to create your own app, which will give you your own cid and client secret here: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started
